### Assignment 2

## Question:

Since Superbowl weekend is right around the corner, it got me thinking
about all of the delicious snacks I will be eating during the big game.
One of the most commonly consumed foods during this day, especially in
the Western New York area, are chicken wings. Chicken in general is a
commonly consumed food throughout the United States. However, with the
rise of health conscience individuals and the increase of fad diets and
plant-based foods, how will this affect the overall consumption of
chicken in the United States? The question that I will be trying to
answer is “Has chicken consumption in the United States increased of
decreased over the years?”

## Data:

The data I used to answer this question was data taken from the
ERS/USDA, which they calculated based on data from a variety of
government and private sources. According to the website, the data was
last updated on July 31, 2019. I found this to be a bit odd however,
because the data that I will be looking at only goes to 2017.

## Data Manipulation:

The initial dataset has additional meats including turkey and other
poultry so I will be taking a subset out that only has the chicken data
in it. Additionally, I added an “Average” column that takes the amount of
chicken (in millions of pounds) and divides it by the Population (in
millions).

## Summary:

To answer the question of whether chicken consumption in the United
States has increased or decreased over time I used ggplot to create a
scatterplot of the amount of chicken consumed per year over a 100 year
period. I also created a scatterplot to look at average chicken
consumption per person per year. It is clear that the trend for more
chicken consumption is increasing, which could be possibly due to the
increased health awareness in the country. Along with answering my
question, these charts can show year-to-year changes in the consumption
of chicken, estimate long-term consumption trends and assess changes in
estimated chicken consumption relative to major nutrition or policy
initiatives.

![](Assignment2_files/figure-gfm/Chicken%20Consumption%20per%20Year%20-1.png)<!-- -->

![](Assignment2_files/figure-gfm/Average%20Chicken%20Consumption%20per%20Person%20per%20Year-1.png)<!-- -->
